Internally, the mini-Internet is based on a large number of interconnected [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers. In this section, we show you how you can access (i) your main docker container, and from there, (ii) your FRRouting routers and hosts, such that you can configure them.

## Accessing your docker container

To make your life easier, you do not need to run the virtual network inside your laptop. Instead, we have setup a remote container for each group where your virtual network already runs and desperately awaits you to configure it. We have also setup our server so that each AS is connected to its neighboring ASes only.

In the following, we describe how you can connect to your container using SSH and how you can copy directories from the container to your own machine.

## Unistra VPN 

The services may only be accessed if within the university's network (both the platform and the tools to assist you). If you're not within the university network and/or working from home, you need to use the University's VPN in order to connect to the platform. Information on how to install and configure the VPN can be found [here](https://services-numeriques.unistra.fr/documentations/toutes-les-documentations/services-au-poste-de-travail/acces-distants-securises-vpn.html)


#### Connecting to your container with SSH

To access your container, you will use SSH. SSH is a UNIX based command interface and protocol for securely getting access to a remote computer. It is widely used by system administrators to control network devices and servers remotely. An SSH client is available by default on any Linux and MAC installation through the Terminal application. For Windows users, a good and free SSH client is [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/\~sgtatham/putty/); alternatively, you can use [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10). Once you have installed an SSH client, use the following command to connect yourself to your container:

```plaintext
ssh -p X root@mai-mini-internet.u-strasbg.fr
```

where `X = 2000 + group_number`. For instance if you are group 7, use the following command:

```plaintext
ssh -p 2007 root@mai-mini-internet.u-strasbg.fr
```

Your password should have been handed to you. If you cannot connect to your container, please report it immediately in the Rocketchat channel or by mail. If you want to simplify the access to your container (optional), please use SSH key authentication.

:point_up: **do not change your password or the key already available on the container**.

#### Download a directory from your container

If you want to download an entire directory from your container to the current directory of your own machine, you can use `scp`:

```plaintext
scp -r -P X root@mai-mini-internet.u-strasbg.fr:~/path_to_the_directory .
```

where `X = 2000 + group_number`. Note the dot at the end of the command and the capitalized `P`. On Windows, you can use [WinSCP](https://winscp.net/eng/docs/start) to do that.

### Accessing your routers, switches and hosts

The following paragraphs describe how you can access your routers, switches and hosts from your container.

#### Access to routers

When you are in your container, you can use the script `goto.sh` to connect to a router, a switch or a host. For example, with the following command, you will access the router `STLO`:

```plaintext
./goto.sh STLO router
```

Now you are directly in the CLI of the router STLO. We describe the FRRouting CLI in more detail in this [part](2.5-Configuring-iP-routers/2.5.1-The-FRRouting-CLI) of the tutorial.


#### Access to hosts

From your container, you can also go to a host. For example, if you want to go to the host which is connected to `BROO`, just use the following command:

```plaintext
./goto.sh BROO host
```

#### Important

No matter if you are in a router, switch or host, you can always use `exit` to get back to your main container from where you can use once again the `goto.sh` script to access a different device or host.

For debugging it can also help to run multiple ssh sessions at the same time. Simply open a new terminal window and connect once more to your main container.

Finally, note that the goto script supports autocompletion. Press the `TAB` key to autocomplete what you started to write or get a list of possible options.