
This section tells you what to do if you have questions, how to backup and submit your work and how it will be graded.
Furthermore, it explains our policies on academic integrity and misuse of the resources.

## How to ask questions?

#### Ask questions on Rocketchat or send us an email

You can ask your questions (and exchange with other students) on the Rocketchat dedicated to Inter-Domain Routing (to which you were added automatically). You can also ask questions by email to both of us ([Pascal Mérindol](mailto:merindol@unistra.fr) and [Jean-Romain Luttringer](mailto:jr.luttringer@unistra.fr)). 

Since questions usually benefit the whole class, we encourage you to ask them through Rocketchat when possible.

#### Rocketchat

We will of course be available to you (and physically present) during the hours dedicated to this teaching. We will also answer to your questions on Rocketchat. If necessary, we can organize online Q&A sessions.

## Regularly backup your work

To save the configuration of all your routers and switches, we provide you with a
script called `save_configs.sh`. Once executed
`./save_configs.sh` it will generate two equal folders following the
naming convention: `configs_[date]_[time]`. One folder is already
zipped for a simpler download. We advise you to run this script regularly and to
save the generated folders on your local machine to have a backup of your work. 

#### Download the zip file

To download the zip file generated by the `./save_configs.sh` script, you can use `scp`:

```
scp -P [2000+X] root@mai-mini-internet.u-strasbg.fr:~/configs_DATE_TIME.zip .
```

Where `X` is your group number and you have to adapt `DATE` and `TIME` to match the filename of your zip file.

## Submission instructions

As per usual, you will submit your report and configs through moodle. Your report and configs have to be **submitted by 04/03**. The deposit will be made available in due time. 

You have to submit all the router configurations (as you uploaded them through the `save_config` script, do not modify the structure of the folder), as well as a PDF version of your report. Note that points are dedicated to the report itself. The latter should have a proper cover page (with your names, a title, and the university's logo). It should be well-structured. The sections answering each question should be clearly visible. The report can be written in either French or English.

Make sure that your report includes your group number as well as the name of the members in your group. The maximum length for your PDF report is 10 A4 pages (including screenshots, traceroutes, looking glass etc.). You can always remove parts of the screenshots, looking glass entries, etc. which are not needed to answer the question or demonstrate the correct functionality of your configuration.

To submit, you should download the configs using the `save_configs.sh` script, as described above. Then, unzip the archive and put the config files under `configs/` in your repository. Move the report to the `report/` directory.

#### Our grading policy

This assignment count for 20% of your final grade. Each group member will receive the same grade.


#### Academic integrity

:cop: We adopt a strict zero tolerance policy when it comes to cheating.
Cheating will immediately result in the group failing the assignment and
being reported to the University's administration. In particular, you can only do your
assignment with the other members of your group. Do not look at other groups'
configuration and do not copy configurations from anywhere. It is OK to discuss
things or find help online, but you must do the work by yourself.

Your configurations and report may be checked with automated tools so as to discover plagiarism.
Again, **do not copy-and-paste** code, text, etc.

We also ask you to clearly indicate which group members worked on the different tasks. Note that, unless we detect any violations of our plagiarism policy, the information provided under „main contributors for each task” will not influence your final grade. Every group member will get the same grade.

#### Misuse of the resources and infrastructure 

It is prohibited to use and modify the network in other ways than expressly allowed in this task description. 
The forbidden misuse includes, but is not limited to, BGP hijacks, DDoS attacks, resource-/bandwidth-hungry programs, and
the attempt to access the docker containers of other groups. :eyes: We monitor, investigate, and apply the appropriate disciplinary actions for cases of misuse.