Now that you have enabled both intra/inter-domain connectivity and have configured BGP policies, we take a closer look at other technologies usually deployed within an operator network.

This assignment is therefore split into the following two parts:

1.  Enabling MPLS. In the first part, you establish MPLS within your network.
    
2.  Enabling BGP MPLS VPNs. The second part is about connecting distant sites so that they can communicate as if they were in the same network.
    
In these first three hours, we will focus on the MPLS technology.  
  
For fairness reasons, we have reset the whole mini-internet and pre-configured every AS.
**Your AS is thus already configured with OSPF & BGP**.
In the following, there is therefore no need to concern yourself with OSPF & BGP (both connectivity and policies).  

:warning: The OSPF weights have been reset. Currently, all links within your network have a cost of 1.

To help you with the project, we explain in the tutorial section how to configure MPLS, as well as how to configure VPNs. If necessary, we specify for each question specific things (traceroute output, configuration excerpt..) which have to be added to your report. Note that these do not constitute a proper answer by themselves: don't forget to write a proper answer to each question.

:pencil: As always, some points are dedicated to the report itself. Among other things, such as spelling and grammar, ensure that the latter respects the instructions mentioned in the assignment instructions section.

  

### Label Distribution Protocol (LDP)

:bulb:  Reminder: Always prefer to launch traceroute from the hosts because they can use the DNS service (routers cannot).
 

#### Question 1.1 (2.5 points)

Start by configuring MPLS network-wide by enabling LDP on each router. Check through the connectivity matrix that the global connectivity still holds. Explain in your own words the purpose of LDP.

:warning: Careful, you should only activate LDP on the relevant interfaces. There is no point in sending LDP control messages on _all_ the interfaces of a router.

:warning: For LDP to work properly, loopback addresses must be a /32 prefix. Ensure that every _lo_ interface is a /32, and that the corresponding prefixes advertised within OSPF are /32s’ as well.

:pencil: **To include in your report:**  Include the output of `show mpls ldp neighbor` for the `PITT` router, as well as the output of `show mpls ldp interface` for the DETR router. 


#### Question 1.2 (1 points)

:bulb:  Reminder: The hostnames follow a specific naming scheme. As an example, tracerouting to the host linked to the `PITT` router within AS 10 would be done through `traceroute host-PITT.group10`. Tracerouting the `PITT` interface of the `PITT-DETR` link can be done through `traceroute PITT-DETR.group10`.

Launch a traceroute from the host of `CHIC` to the host of `CHAR`. Next, launch a traceroute from another AS to your `CHAR` host, using the measurement container. Choose the AS so that the traceroute goes through the same path (through CHIC). For example, the operator of AS8 would launch a traceroute from one of its providers, AS6, using the command `./launch_traceroute.sh 6 CHAR-host.group8`.

:bulb: As Tier 1 ASes do not have measurement containers, ASes having them as providers should instead traceroute from `NASH` to `BROO`.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Include the output of both traceroutes.  How do you interpret those results?


#### Question 1.3 (1.5 points)

Launch a traceroute from the host of CHAR to the host of `STLO` in your peer AS.
Given the fact that MPLS tunnels are only established between intra-domain destination, explain why a `* * *` can nevertheless be seen in this output. Explain in detail how `PITT` knows how to join `NEWY`.

:bulb: **Hint:** Inquire about the notion of recursive lookup in BGP.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Include the output of the traceroute.


#### Question 1.4 (2 points)

Check the Label Information Base (LIB) at the `DETR` router for the loopback of the `NEWY` router as destination, through the `show mpls ldp ipv4 binding` command.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Explain the output. What does each column mean (explain in particular the _in use_ column). Why are several (but not all)  labels _in use_ ?
Given the information in the table, deduce how the router behaves when it receives traffic towards `NEWY`, depending on the incoming label.


#### Question 1.5 (0.5 points)

Check the Label Forwarding Information Base (LFIB) at the `DETR` router through the `show mpls table` command.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** What do you observe? Explain the difference between the LIB and the LFIB.
  

#### Question 1.6 (1 points)

Check the LIB at the `PITT` router for the destination corresponding to the `CHAR` host network. Perform a traceroute from the `DETR` host to `X.103.0.1`.
  
:pencil: **To include in your report:** Show and explain the LIB excerpt. In particular, explain the meaning of `implicit-null`. Why is `CHAR-PITT` visible within the traceroute despite the MPLS tunnels? Include the results of the corresponding traceroute.
  

#### Question 1.7 (2.5 points)

In this question, your goal is to determine, **solely** through the LFIB or LIB of each router, 
the path taken by a packet within the MPLS tunnels _and_ the associated labels. By consulting the LFIB and LIB of each relevant router, find out the evolution of the labels _and_ the path of the MPLS tunnel between `STLO` and `BROO` (host).

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Include the relevant excerpt of the label forwarding tables. Deduce the path, and explain the evolution of labels along it. What are the MPLS operations realized by each router along the path?


#### Question 1.8 (2 points)

Given your previous answer, do the MPLS tunnels differ from the standard IP paths? As-is, in your network, what do you think are the benefits of using MPLS+LDP?

 
#### Question 1.9 (2.5 points)

Remove BGP from the `NEWY` router. Verify through the connectivity matrix that the connectivity to the other ASes still holds.

Verify with a ping from `NEWY` to `NASH` that connectivity in your AS is maintained.
From `NEWY`, launch a ping targeting the `BROO` router of an AS **in another region** connected to the same IXP as you. What do you observe?

Launch a traceroute going through `NEWY` and targeting the `BROO` router of an AS in another region. For example, you may launch a traceroute from the host of `CHAR`. Despite going 
through `NEWY`, is the connection still maintained? Given these results, explain how MPLS+LDP allows for the design of cheaper networks.

:pencil: **To include in your report:**  Include the relevant excerpt of pings, and the traceroute.


#### Question 1.10 (1 point) 

There exist two main label popping schemes: UHP (ultimate hop popping) and PHP (penultimate hop popping).
Explain the difference between both schemes and find out which scheme is currently used by the `BROO` router. 

:bulb: **Hint:** Look up the meaning of implicit and explicit null labels.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Add the relevant excerpt that allowed you to deduce which popping scheme was being used by your router.


#### Question 1.11 (1 point)

Run a traceroute from `STLO` (host) to `BROO` (host). Then configure UHP on the `BROO` router.  Check on the `NEWY` LFIB the effect your command had on the labeling scheme. Re-run a traceroute from `STLO` (host) to `BROO` (host). What difference do you observe and why? What is the point of using either PHP or UHP?

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Add the aforementioned traceroute output and the relevant excerpt of the `NEWY` LFIB.


#### Question 1.12 (2.5 points)

In mini-internet, MPLS hides the IP address of internal routers from traceroute, as the latter do not reply to the traceroute probes anymore. However, this is not the case of most routers within the internet, which answer to traceroute probes even within MPLS tunnels. Additionally, your internal IP addresses are hidden. One can therefore deduce the general size of your network, as the number of hops is still visible as stars. 

In some cases, operators may wish to hide their network _completely_ from traceroute probes. In this question, we will hide your network from external probes. This can be done by modifying the _ip-ttl-propagate_ option of the router.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Gather information online about the _ttl propagation_ within an MPLS tunnel. How does this allow you to hide or not your MPLS tunnels? Should the _ttl propagation_ be activated or deactivated to hide the MPLS tunnels?

Change the ttl-propagation option on the `STLO` router in order to hide your internal network from the traceroute probes entering through `STLO`.

:warning: Because of the limitations of FRR, changing this parameter is trickier than usual. Be sure to check the tutorial.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Include a traceroute from _your_ `STLO` host to your `BROO` host. Then, include a traceroute output launched from your peer’s measurement container towards your `BROO` host.


#### Question 1.13 (bonus 1.5pt)

Although the TTL propagation parameter can be used to hide MPLS tunnels, the behavior of egress routers when removing the uttermost label may leave some artifacts and oddities that can allow for the detection of (or at least infer) the presence of a hidden MPLS tunnel. In some cases, the latter may even be revealed.

Inquire about the `--back` option of traceroute. Launch a traceroute from your `STLO` host towards your `BROO` host. Study the traceroute output. Why can you infer the presence of an invisible MPLS tunnel ? Explain in detail what causes this anomaly.

:pencil: **To include in your report:** Include the output of the traceroute containing the anomaly. If you manage to detect your peer’s hidden MPLS tunnels, include them.
